Rahul's Maui Hit List:

Basic Logistics:
	I recommend staying in Wailuku or Kahului for their cheap price and relatively central location.
	Rent a car through Turo, it's very cheap and there's tons of options.
	There's a costco in Kahului, use it for gas and any staples you want to stock up on.

Scuba Trips/Scuba Certs: Never Dry Maui
	Ask for Brittany, tell her I rec'd you

Snorkel:
	PacWhale Eco-Adventures Molokini and Turtle Arches - gear and meals provided, this tour is well worth the extra $$ and takes you to special destinations and has excellent guides
		Book online @ https://www.pacificwhale.org/cruises/maui-snorkel/molokini-turtle-arches-snorkel/
	Honolua Bay
		Stunning, but only make the drive if it hasn't rained recently on that side of the island!! You can just call a resort in nearby Kapalua to know if it's clear or not.
		Grab a pair of fins and masks at any of the 1$ rental shops
	Olowalu is good, and it rarely rains out the beaches on South side. (Rain = runoff and churn = turbid waters)

Bodysurfing/swimming: Big Beach in Makena is the Best!! Baldwin's good in a pinch if you're on northside and don't want to go down to Makena
	Go specifically to "Big Beach 3rd Entrance" on google maps when the surf energy and size is up according to: http://www.surf-forecast.com/breaks/Big-Beach
	Swim with the locals, find one to show you the basics
	If you get caught in the churn and can't kick out into the water from under it, cover your head with your hands and relax the rest of your body
	Try swimming up the front of the wave as it's starting to curl into a barrel!
	Big Beach also has beautiful sunsets, I went here almost every other day at around 330 PM - 615 PM sunset

Surfing:
	Best beginner break at Breakwall in Lahaina, decent begineer break at Ho'okipa east of Paia and Olowalu
	Again, use surfline to time for more consistent and bigger surfs
	Go with a class or find a local who can show you the basics. Also rec watching some YT vids
	If you want to try windsurfing, the conditions aren't usually good in winter, but I can ask a friend for a coach rec if you're still interested.

Mt. Haleakala Sunrise:
	Bring your national park America the Beautiful pass from Washington, not your Discover pass.
	80 last minute tickets open up for booking at https://www.recreation.gov/ticket/facility/253731 at 4 PM two days prior to your targeted sunrise (e.g. book on mon @ 4pm for wednesday morning)
	Book promptly at 4PM!!! These get exhausted within minutes, and the view is well worth it.
	Dress very warmly, and ideally with a waterproof shell. If the clouds are in, you'll be walking through mist and rain. Don't leave if they obscure the sunrise, they'll burn off and look amazing by 7-8 PM.
	If you can, also go to a sunset, they're both beautiful and unique.

Hikes:
	Download alltrails, get the pro version for good offline maps!
	Either of the Lahaina Pali trails are a good challenge and a very beautiful hike up to the wind turbine line.
		You can (illegally, but without any obstacle like a fence) walk up to and hug the big turbines and stand underneath with the massive blades whooshing overhead!
		Start early, it gets hot (but the beauty is well worth!)
		This is strenuous but short, plan water and footwear accordingly.
		Here's the one from Ukumehame, I prefer the ocean views on this side: https://www.alltrails.com/explore/recording/lahaina-pali-trail-from-the-ukumehame-west-trailhead--116
	Iao Valley Secret Trail (it says closed/don't trespass on alltrails and at the trailhead, ignore and do it anyways like everyone does)
		Go barefoot or in boots that can get muddy, this trail is essentially in the middle of a rainforest.
		There's fruit you can pick and eat! Read up ahead of time to know what you can and can't pick.
	Haleakala Crater Hike (~13 miles)
		Enter a martian landscape, hike around and up the eruption points, cross grasslands into rain-soaked cliffs.
		I recommend combining this hike with a visit to the summit for the sunrise. Talk to a guide at the ranger station to get an update on trail conditions and recommendations on what turns to take and which not to.
		You'll need to hitchhike from the Halemau'u Trailhead back up to the Summit parking lot, but it's quite easy and both locals and tourists are friendly. Hitchhiking is legal on Haleakala and done subtly all over Maui. (Just don't use your thumb outside of the park, cross your arms and stand facing traffic in the other areas of the island.)
	Waihe'e Ridge Trail
		Moderate length trail west of Wailuku, make sure it's not raining up there when you go
	Plenty more, just consult Alltrails!

Road to Hana:
	I never did this myself, but:
	People seem to really enjoy this for all the waterfalls along the way, be sure to plan ahead and I recommend preparing a plan/map or downloading an app since most of the drive is without cell service.

Culinary Experience: Maui Chef's Table, every Saturday at 6 pm
	Book in advance: https://www.mauichefstable.com/
	2 hours of watching chefs cook unique and brand new dishes for you with local produce, including storytelling about dish design/conception and sourcing of the food
	Very, very cool experience, well worth the price

Fish and Chips: Maui Fish and Chips/Maui Teriyaki in the Dolphin Plaza
	Get the Basa with the Volcano or Furikake Fries, recommend the coconut coffee or POG

Sushi: Koiso, also in the Dolphin Plaza
	Call at least 2-4 weeks in advance, it's a small sushi bar in very high demand. Get the omakase and sashimi combo, and then binge on the ala carte specials - Chutoro is excellent
	Good with warm sake

Italian: Sale Pepe is really excellent, don't mind that it's in Maui. Get a margherita, get a pasta dish, get an anti pasti (I like the focaccia trio), get the risotto balls.

French: Gerard's, again don't mind that it's in Maui. Get the Degustations for Two, I recommend the wine pairing as well.

Hawaiian: Poi by the Pound, get the Aloha Plate combo and split it.

Ramen: Iine is a fantastic ramen food truck that's open late (9pm) in Kahului. This truck is part of a food truck courtyard across from the Costco that has a bunch of other good spots as well.

Fijian Indian: Jini's Curry, a lunch only place open till 3 in Wailuku. Get the 4 dish thali, split it. Very cheap and good value.

Shaved Ice: Go to an Ulua's get one of the flavour combos with Macnut ice cream in the centre. Get a small or medium and split it, it's big and sweet.

Acai: Hawaiian Lemonade is my #1, #2 is Paia Bowls, there's also a good acai truck in the same lot as the Iine truck, I forget the name.

Poke: This sounds funny but I think the Poke at Foodland branches is great value and good quality. Convenience stores and groceries in Maui have surprisingly good food, I also really recommend trying a teriyaki spam musubi when you see one. There's also a good poke truck in the same lot as the Iine truck, I forget the name.

Don't go to Mama's Fish House, it's overpriced and overrated.